Are you tired of being tired?
Are you sick of being sick?
Many of us are feeling the impact
of living in this old system of things.
But what can we do?
Well, we try to improve our health
or find some relief by medical means
or by improving our diet,
exercise, and getting more rest.
But the bottom line is,
we are infected with sin,
and with sin comes sickness
and the effects of aging.
There’s promise after promise,
but are they really true?
There is no pill, medicine,
diet, or exercise program
that can give us complete relief
—removal of sickness
or, what we really want
and what we need, perfect health.
But there is a promise
recorded in God’s Word
that does give us confidence.
Let’s read this together
at Isaiah chapter 33.
At Isaiah chapter 33,
notice the reassuring words from Jehovah
through the prophet Isaiah in verse 24.
And there it says:
“And no resident
[no one] will say: ‘I am sick.’
The people dwelling in the land
will be pardoned for their error.”
So sin will be removed in God’s new world.
Do you believe that?
Can we really put faith in Jehovah’s promise?
Yes.
This is not just another empty promise
by a human.
This comes from our Creator, Jehovah.
Yes, he can guarantee it.
But what can we do today
to build up our faith in those promises?
Well, as highlighted in this symposium,
we can take the time and stop
to look at Jehovah’s creation.
So let’s do that right now.
Let’s examine the human body
and its amazing ability to repair itself.
Please watch the following video.
Our bones
are amazing.
They support our bodies,
protect our organs,
and store almost all
of the body’s calcium
—a mineral essential
for our health.
For their weight,
bones are very strong.
The feet of a track and field jumper
may experience forces
of several times his body weight.
Bones can compress and bend,
but sometimes they break.
A fractured bone
can heal well if properly set.
Inflammation brings
organic building blocks to the area,
and soft tissue grows
between the broken pieces.
The soft tissue
is replaced with harder tissue.
The body replaces the harder tissue
with new bone until the repair is complete.
In children,
the break may heal
without leaving a trace.
Jehovah gave every bone in our body
this incredible ability to heal.
“I praise you because in an awe-inspiring way
I am wonderfully made.”
Well, that was an amazing video.
We learned a lot
about what happens on the inside.
We take it for granted
that when we get a cut or broken bone,
our body automatically heals itself.
King David was very impressed
with the way that he was made
and the way the human body works.
But he did not have the modern technology
and knowledge that we have today
—an X-ray machine or a microscope—
but he observed Jehovah’s creation,
and he knew that we were designed
in an awe-inspiring way.
Let’s read what he says at Psalm 139
—Psalm 139:14—
and I’m sure you feel the same way.
He says:
“I praise you
“because in an awe-inspiring way
I am wonderfully made.
Your works are wonderful,
I know this very well.”
So, what helped David
to build a strong faith in Jehovah
and his promises for the future?
Well, did you read there?
He says: “I know this very well.”
David took the time to stop
and observe Jehovah’s creations.
That’s what helped him
to put faith in Jehovah.
Yes, he took the time,
not to be distracted
by other things going on around him,
but to observe Jehovah’s creations.
That’s what inspired him,
and that’s what motivated him
to give praise to Jehovah.
And we need to do the same.
Yes, we are far
from the perfect health and life
that Jehovah had intended for the future.
But even so,
we are made in an awe-inspiring way.
Jehovah wants us to continue living.
It’s plain to see.
And as we saw in the video,
our bodies are amazing in that they
can continue to repair themselves
even without a conscious thought.
But therein lies a problem.
We could be so busy with our lives
that we don’t stop
and take that time to have a thought:
‘Why did Jehovah make this?
Why did he create me the way he did?’
Yes, we’re busy thinking
about how we’ll care for our families,
pay the bills,
or maybe take care of our health.
But like David, we need to stop, pause,
think deeply about what Jehovah has made.
Don’t miss out on an opportunity
to be inspired, like David,
with all the inspiring creations around us.
And think about this:
If Jehovah could create our bodies
with the ability to repair themselves,
like we saw in the video,
he can certainly heal all infirmities.
He can reverse the aging process,
and he can prevent sickness in his new world.
While on earth, Jesus proved
with the power he was given from Jehovah
that he could cure “every sort of disease
and every sort of infirmity.”
“Every sort” meant everything
from healing the blind, the lame,
those with epilepsy, leprosy
to raising the dead to life.
That truly is an amazing thing to ponder.
Now, that must have been
an amazing thing to see back then.
But what Jesus did
was just a preview on a small scale
of what he will do
in the future worldwide on a large scale
under God’s Kingdom arrangement
during the Millennium.
We will finally see
that promise we read in Isaiah
that “no resident will say: ‘I am sick.’”
Why?
Because Jesus will use his kingly power
to bring about perfect health
—yes, lasting health.
Jehovah’s promises fill us with hope.
They fill us with confidence
that every sort of disease and illness
—anything that we’re going through now—
is only temporary,
knowing that permanent perfect health
is soon to come.
This symposium has considered examples
ranging from the heavens
all the way to the inner workings
of our amazing bodies.
Jehovah left his imprint
on all of his creations.
The evidence is clearly seen; it’s evident.
What must we do today
to build our faith and confidence
in Jehovah’s promises?
Notice what Romans 1:20 has to say.
There in verse 20,
Romans 1:20:
“For his invisible qualities are clearly seen
“from the world’s creation onward, [why?]
“because they are perceived
by the things made,
“even his eternal power and Godship,
so that they are inexcusable.”
Let’s focus in on the word “perceived.”
It’s interesting that the study note
says that “perceived” means
more than just seeing something
with our literal eyes.
It means “grasping [or understanding]
with [our] mind.”
One Bible translation says:
“God’s qualities are
‘visible . . .  to the eye of reason.’”
That’s interesting.
So when we see Jehovah’s creations,
take the time, like David did,
to stop and think deeply.
Meditate on what we can learn
from that creation
—what it tells us about our Creator, Jehovah.
What happens
when we perceive Jehovah’s wisdom,
his power, his justice,
his love in creations?
It strengthens our faith
in his promises now
as well as in the future.
May we always be inspired and stay inspired
by Jehovah’s awe-inspiring creations,
and thus we will always be inspired
by our Almighty God and Creator, Jehovah!